the biggest threat to America is not
al-qaeda it's not Isis it's not Putin
it's not any of these guys it's China do
you really believe that I believe it I
think it's the most consequential
existential threat in 2011 and 2013 they
poured more concrete than we did an
entire 20th century is that a factual
stance of factual statements they had a
hundred years of bad luck and now
they're back on top they are still in
their minds perfecting their ability to
control people at any moment this thing
can become unraveled for you more
concern about the totalitarian regime or
the large technology company today they
have the same business model really
you're talking about having to change a
lot of things for us to move forward
what you can criticize is the policies
of the government that allowed for the
behavior to occur in the first place a
strong statement server your senior
during high Garrincha and russia's in
our net I guarantee it particularly
because you put out that video on China
not only can you not knocked out you
don't know who owns the data everything
that you do can be watched is it
political to me it's not political it's
not about quid pro quo it's about
adopting chicheme things world view
there is terabytes and terabytes of data
that's created about you and you have no
control over
[Music]
all right today I have a special guest
with me here obviously we did a China
video a couple weeks ago they've got a
few million views on a lot of content so
I wanted to go a little bit deeper we
reached out to General Robert Spaulding
who wrote a book called stealth war how
China took over while America's elite
slept I literally couldn't put this book
down and once you read it as well we'll
put the link below you'll know exactly
why he was the former senior director of
strategy at the National Security
Council and he was kind enough to fly
out to Dallas for us to have this
conversation together by the us-china 5g
and a lot of other technical issues that
have to do with that having said that
thanks for coming up appreciate you for
making thank thanks for having me yes so
let's let's get right into it so pre
going into China
what is your journey of you becoming a
general at the air force and then from
there being part of National Security
Council how did that go about I came
into the Air Force before you know I
really knew much about the military and
you know my picture of the military was
about peeling potatoes and somebody
yelling at you know essentially Gomer
Pyle and I saw a movie Top Gun and it
was it fascinated me and really got me
excited so I joined and and just went in
with no expectations just had fun and
and really just worked hard but also
played hard but you know I wanted to fly
jets and that was that was what got me
started and you know one thing led to
another I had an opportunity to years
before I was supposed to leave the
service to go live in China and so I
took it and the rest is kind of history
because when that when I made that
fateful decision and it was really about
um you know thinking about what
opportunity I had to go live abroad but
also how strategic China was in our
future it really opened doors for me
that quite frankly I would have never
considered I even had had no clue about
so little so there was no plans of that
there was no plans there was really
really no plans in fact I didn't want a
career in the Air Force so you know I
didn't look to become a general in fact
and when my wife heard that I
had made it she laughed why is that that
you've made it a general like how could
you make that because you know I mean I
was an e4 in the military in the army
you know when we saw generals we would
shiver it's like this is a general you
know and this is a big deal but for me
it was you know just having fun serving
my grandfather how you think of it that
way yeah it's pretty wild how you think
of it what is a percentage of people
becoming generals it's minotaurs it's
very very small you see that star on the
Humvee or whatever you're being driven
around I mean that's pretty unique to
have that but what year was it when you
went to China I'm curious so first time
it was 2002 so actually went to language
training at Monterey the Defense
Language Institute the allotted in China
for for 52 weeks it's a 62 week course I
left in 52 weeks in June of 2002 staff
and I and our two boys went in the
country and and lived in Shanghai and
pudong on the east side of the city and
that's the side that the Communist Party
built up in the 90s so that's where the
jinmao building is and all a lot of the
financial district of Shanghai and we
just traveled the country and live with
people and it was probably one of the
most phenomenal two years of my life it
was a phenomenal experience it was
incredible you know the people were
great they're hard-working resilient
people and you know having learned the
language before I got there I could
communicate and really travel all over
and really got to know how they think
and you know in a lot of ways you know
not really fully understanding what was
going on I don't think you can live in
China and fully understand what it is to
be Chinese but for me from as an
outsider looking at that country it was
it was exciting and it was it was the
place that I wanted to be and so when I
left in 2004 I told Stephanie that hey
we're gonna we're gonna when I retire
from the Air Force I'm gonna come back
here and I'm gonna start a startup
business and guess what was the plan to
one that was a plan now what's your rank
at that time when you were doing okay so
when I got there I had just made major
just made me just so you were already
you were already I've been in ten years
you have been in ten years your major
and what was your job what were you
doing in China for us
so the olmstead program which is a
program that I was selected for
essentially picks three officers from
each branch of the service and sends
them to language school it's not for you
to go into a country that does has
English as a as the national language
but a foreign language and so and then
send you in the country for two years
and I went to University in Shanghai
tone G University and studied MBA
courses and really was about getting to
know the people it's really becoming
immersed in what it was to understand
China the Chinese culture and history in
the language so does China know that
you're going in as a major is that a
something that it's a basic open
conversation hey we're sending one of
our majors from Air Forces spent years
with you one of the great things about
the homestead scholar program is that
you do everything on your own
so you once you're accepted into the
program and you go to language training
it's upon your responsibility to go and
get accepted into University to apply
for a visa because they want you to
understand what it takes to travel to a
foreign country and so it's almost like
being on a sabbatical you're not you
don't got it you don't have a detailer
that you're talking to you're basically
cut loose on your own on your own
recognizance to go and and and figure it
out what you're getting paid so the mill
getting paid okay that that's I mean it
is it is really an incredible
opportunity because you are you're
really learning because you don't have a
lot of support you're out there by
yourself trying to figure it out and you
know there was you know how so how do I
get there become a student get a student
visa but also how do I get my family in
there and how do I make sure that they
so we had to take them out of country
every 60 or every 90 days to six months
to renew the visa and come back in so so
China didn't know you were there and you
were major they didn't I was not there
in an official capacity I wasn't there
on I wasn't there on an official visa
our diplomatic passport I was there on a
on a basically a tourist passport with a
student visa going to a university now
when I met Chinese I would tell them hey
I'm
I'm in the Air Force I'm a b2 pilot of
course they thought that was quite
strange that I would be there but you
know that's exactly what I would be
thinking about because from what you
read on culture you sense a certain
level of not a paranoia or suspicious
but why are you here
what do you do are you a spy you'd look
like a CIA guy I mean if you go there
I'd look at you saying maybe you are
working and you're trying to gather
Intel to bring you back but that was
actually not the case but it's just 2002
to 2004 and what was happening there if
you remember we had just China just
entered WTO so it was it was breakneck
speed to grow the company our country
and grow the economy and all of my
neighbors were there building factories
for fortune 100 companies and so there
was a lot less scrutiny on me as a
military guy I think it was the country
at the time was focused on making money
and and you know certainly people found
out who I was but I didn't get a lot of
scrutiny that's good to hear that they
didn't do anything now the second time
when you won back was what year the
second time I went back was in December
of 2016 and that was to be the defense
attache in Beijing and this time around
this is a little bit more public so they
know a little bit more that you're going
or still you know this is this is
definitely I am the senior defense
official representing the Secretary of
Defense and the chairman of the Joint
Chiefs to the Chinese military the
People's Liberation Army in Beijing and
so I for example I got there a week
before they took the uuv I don't know if
you remember but they took one of our
underwater gliders in the South China
Sea essentially while one of our ships
was trying to retrieve it and so there
was a big controversy there was a big
dip diplomatic controversy and that was
beginning to be a crisis and I was the
one that negotiated the return with the
People's Liberation Army of that glider
to the
to the US what was the biggest
difference you felt culturally and
spirits from o2 o4 to December 2016 I
never saw a guy with a gun when I was
there
from 2000 2004 when I got back in 2016
there were people with guns at the
subway stops not all of them but they
were there and you could definitely feel
a palpable change in kind of the tone of
the country now some of that may be
because it's it's not Shanghai its
Beijing which is a nation's capital but
clearly things were a heck of a lot more
tense when I had been there in 2002 - mm
my mind different vibe what from your
experience and what you obviously to
write a book like this specific to China
you've had to do a lot of research to be
able to write what you've written here
do you think a part of that happened
where they are now growing up to the
point where they're not growing up
that's maybe a bad word they're becoming
a bigger I mean GDP wise they grew you
know to being at a higher number than
what they were before
they're become a little bit more
competitive 2008 Olympics it was a
statement they're opening so hey we are
here to compete do you think a part of
that is also their level of confidence
to know that we can compete with
everybody let's be a little bit more
cautious and protections protect
protective of what what we're trying to
build so look out there or that was just
a different city for you well no I think
there's a couple of things one the party
the Communist Party was really concerned
about corruption if you go back to 1989
the the Tiananmen Massacre the three
things that the Chinese Communist Party
learned during that time was one the
Communist Party was under attack by
elements within China in league with the
United States - that openness was great
for globalization in terms of Science
and Technology and economic economics
and finance but in terms of ideology
they needed to pour a whole lot more
into what they were doing in order to
prevent their population from becoming
democratized and three if the party ever
became separated from the people that
the party would fail and you can see
that there's a definite paranoia on the
part of the party in terms of not want
to make sure that while there people are
very advanced in terms of the technology
in the
models with regard to the e economy
they're very cautious about that kind of
getting out of control and so I think
you know they are still in their minds
perfecting their ability to control
people but at the same time they're
concerned about you know at any moment
this thing could become unraveled so it
creates this kind of you know I really
believe that they really believe that
that it could in at any moment the party
could essentially lose control because
the population essentially awakes and
and so I think it plays into their that
paranoia yeah so so I do more concerned
internally for it to collapse or
somebody from the outside to come and
penetrate and confuse them and divide
you know from with them I think it's a
combination it's a combination of
internally in terms of are they do they
have legitimacy in the eyes of the
people and then what are some things
that might in their minds confuse the
people in terms of you know democracy or
human rights or civil liberties so with
you now being who you are and you know
you were with the National Security
Council senior director strategy you've
written this book it's very obvious on
who you are what your position is that
is someone like you able to go back with
no issues like would you be comfortable
saying I'm gonna take my family to China
absolutely not absolutely now why is
that well because clearly what I say in
that book is that the Communist Party is
not great for the Chinese people and
that's not something that they
appreciate people like me saying
certainly the way that you become a
China expert in the United States is
that you go to China in order to go to
China that you say things that actually
the Communist Party doesn't get angry
about and so are they may not even give
me a visa but even if they were to give
me a visa I would be concerned that I
would go there and they would they would
find some reason to not let me go back
not let you come back here right even
though I mean today would be a good time
to actually keep you if you went over
there so if you have any plans of
staying right I don't I don't want to go
on vacation so so let me go back to
something you said because the other
thing that that really
and you mentioned 2008 and it's
important because it's not only the
paranoia that they have but also if you
go back to dung shopping and what he
said about hiding capability and biding
time this is not a change in what the
Communist Party who they are it's really
in 2008 when when our financial system
essentially said that we really don't
know how to run global finance that they
really believed that they had arrived
and so there's also element of they've
been you know having to play second
fiddle based on the century of
humiliation and the fact that you know
they were the dominant Society for 5000
years they had a hundred years of bad
luck and now they're back on top they're
they're ready now to essentially take a
leading role in the international system
so you know part of that goes with not
just you know that vibe is not just with
you know how they treat their population
but also how they treat the the West how
they treat foreigners because there is
an element say we're not gonna back down
anymore we're gonna be we're gonna stand
up for for what we believe and and we're
gonna we're gonna make a name for
ourselves in the international or don't
worry and we're gonna we're gonna fight
to have our interests respected you mean
them them yeah so you say in the book I
mean obviously I got a lot of notes here
I got seven eight pages of notes to go
through with you but you said in the
book that you will not you said this I
think Steve bana said this but you
quoted it the biggest threat to America
is not al Qaeda the biggest threat to
America is not actually this is you
saying it in the book I believe Christie
Bennett said something else
the biggest threat to America is not
al-qaeda it's not Isis it's not Putin
it's not any of these guys it's China
you really believe that I believe it I
think it's the most consequential
existential threat not just to America
just to democracy the world's ever seen
and it's because it's cloaked itself in
this picture of adoption of the
international norms that were
established and the rules and norms and
the systems and the institutions that
were established after World War Two
perpetuated through the cold
or and essentially and our thoughts was
dominant after the end of the Cold War
it was they wrapped themselves in that
and so there's a belief that they that
they accepts those principles and what
they say is they they want to have the
international system essentially
correspond to their interests but what
they don't say what their interests are
and the interests are essentially
counter to every democratic principle
that that we stand for human rights
civil liberties rule of law it's
interesting when you say that because
that's a pretty bold statement to make
you hear a lot of people talk about
climate change you're a lot of people
talk about cyber sea you know cyber war
all this other stuff what you talk about
in the book as well but to say China is
at the highest level more than Isis
al-qaeda Putin those are some good
that's strong statements to be making
but let's go a little bit back to you
are working as the senior director
strategy of the National Security
Council and you go in you said you have
two reasons why you wanted to be a part
of them and one was to educate the
members about who they are and the other
one was to ensure the security of 5-g
for us and also other countries right
not just us right everybody else that's
involved and then you you're giving this
one talk and you brought some other
people to also give inside there was a
lot of dialogue and then it got a little
bit heated and then you held a meeting
back kind of trying to bring everybody
together hey this is a good question
we're having this discourse it's a very
good thing where did it go from there to
the you know press leaked and you know
being leaked to the press and then from
there you getting fired from National
Security Council how did that process
take place so the the debate on what was
going how we were going to treat China
really was taking place during the
summer of 2017 and there was really
about how are we gonna structure the
national security strategy what we're
gonna what was going to be our
priorities and that was a process of
discovery what and quite frankly I
that's all I had been working on since
so from 2014 to 2017 17 when I get to
the White House my two years in the
joint staff my time in Beijing and then
coming to the to the White House in May
of 2017 everything have been focused on
this competition between the
in China and what the implications were
on us from on a societal level and
economic level on a national security
level when I get into the National
Security Council in 2017 we start the
discussions on framing and writing the
new national security strategy and so in
that dialogue was you know the first
thing you do when you have a strategy is
what's your problem statement what are
you you know what what are the threats
that the United States faces and of
course you know the same thing that you
just mentioned a lot of people talk
about climate change that talk about
terrorism what we had to contend with is
there's a lot of things happening that
people outside of national security
policy may be aware of don't talk about
that infects that affects everything
that we do and so we start I started
because I had had those discussions
outside of the national security policy
establishment I started bringing that
information in and really for the first
time you know by the spring of 2017 I
had formed in my mind a good picture of
how to describe it what the elements of
it were and then you know essentially
how to have a logical conversation that
said these are the challenges we face
and this is what we need we need to do
that conversation by August of 2017 was
complete and then I said I'm gonna be
here a short amount of time if I could
do one thing for national security
policy to change the course of the
United States going forward to preserve
our republic it would be to secure the
Internet and so I started working on
talking to engineers about what is 5g
what's the state of play today because
we'd said in the national security
strategy that data is a strategic
resource like oil in the 20th century
data in the 21st century which will
drive artificial intelligence everything
that that all the algorithms that got
that essentially guide our lives to
better places if we didn't secure that
strategic resource then we were at risk
as a democracy and so how do we take
that you know
you essentially beamforming antennas
with software-defined radios and
networks which something that we had
used in the military for a long time and
a plot and give it to the people but
then do it in a way that actually
provides security for their data which
is in essence what you know I had come
to conclusion the only way that you
democratize in a digital sense is by
protecting is by giving control of the
at the citizen level of their data of
their data of their data it is and the
analogy I make when I talk to people is
if you go back to Alexander Hamilton and
the framing of the Constitution you know
essentially what he was shooting for
after having surveyed you know done an
extensive survey of all the governments
that existed prior was how do we create
a government where no one person party
or group can attain ultimate power
because ultimate power is ultimately
corrupting and so that's the
Constitution but then what if it fails
what if you know we don't actually
provide for the people and somebody can
gain power then we give the American
people the second amendment the right to
keep and bear arms so that they can
fight an oppressive government if that
dream ever fails and of course in a
digital world what you saw what you had
begun to see is a world where you may
not know you're being oppressed or you
may not know who your oppressor and in
that world you may not know you're the
oppressor you may not know you're being
oppressed or the second war that you
your oppressor is who your oppressor is
right because we'd seen in for instance
after election using big data analysis
AI BOTS and social media networks the
Russians had created protests right they
had it was ostensibly on behalf of black
lives matter I'm talking about the one
in New York City a few days after the
election but it was really the Russians
and so what you what you're seeing is in
going back to date as a strategic
resource in in the digitized world the
ability to aggregate data is equivalent
to aggregating power and if you can
aggregate power then you have to wonder
about who
has the ability to aggregate data in
that world and today the two entities
that can really aggregate data are large
tech companies and totalitarian regimes
democracies have a hard time aggregating
data the United States cannot aggregate
data because the law prevents it from
doing so so we started this this unit
within the State Department called the
global engagement center the global
engagement center was supposed to fight
radicalization for instance by Isis and
and prevent influence of our population
but they can't do their job because they
can't aggregate data not even public
facing Twitter data right because
there's concern that we use the
resources of the government to spy on
our own population but one of the was so
one of the ways that foreign States go
after us is actually take our own social
media data and use it in ways that
influence us and so in order to discover
that you actually have to be in the data
and so the only ones that can be in the
data today are the large tech companies
and so you're essentially offloading to
the large tech companies one of the
primary purposes of forming the
Constitution which is in the preamble
provide for the common defense and so if
you think about national security and
gets really the heart of things right if
you think about national security we
have an Air Force we have an army we
have a Navy we have a Marine Corps right
I don't think you're worried about you
know Marines jumping into your building
here or getting bombed right you're not
concerned about that but I guarantee you
the Chinese are in your networks and the
Russians and the North Koreans and
everybody I'm Jerry I guarantee it
they're in your networks they're in
everybody's networks this is what they
do and so if they're in your networks
that's strong statements you're you're
saying you Jerry I guarantee and
Russia's in our net I guarantee it I
guarantee it particularly because you
put out that that video on on China I
guarantee they're there they've come at
this place but so who's responsible for
protecting you from that government I
don't know who is it not at all the
government protects their own networks
they don't
like your networks what you're
responsible for to protect your own
network and then of course if you have
you have a Twitter account yeah I do
okay
Twitter is responsible for protecting
that Twitter is responsible for
protecting my account on Twitter right
and I'm responsible for protecting mine
your data your data what are you which
we have we've ice it's not the US
government sure but now let me ask you
this so I had a former undercover FBI
agent right here he said and that's sure
three weeks ago so I asked him I said so
what is the what is the real you know
the line you don't cross between the
government protecting me right because
the government getting too involved and
hey you know the whole app will go into
DMV getting IDs and not Apple the
government going to the DMV and saying
we want to get the licenses and then
government getting to Apple and saying
we want to be able to get access to the
phone conversations in case the
terrorist does this well in China
because some people will say well China
is set up in a way where they feel like
they're a company and they control what
everybody does because they work for the
company right what America looks at this
is actually how I view America America
sees their citizens as 1099 China sees
their citizens as w-2 so because they
have more control it's tougher to
infiltrate their system than America's
because America kind of leaves everybody
alone would you agree with that where we
are left a little bit more to ourselves
without the top have an access to the
private companies to get data to see if
anybody's tapping into our systems or no
you mean from our government yes you're
met your left totally alone do you think
that's okay no I don't think it's okay
oh so you're saying they should be more
involved they should be involved in
protecting your data they should be
involved insuring that that there is not
undue influence placed on you by a
foreign nation so that you are making
decisions based on influence that's
coming from outside our borders okay so
now somebody's watching this and saying
well Pat that's exactly what a big
government guy would say because let
them control us and they can do what
they know what's best for us to keep I'm
not saying I'm not saying that the
government has access to your data
you're saying they should they should
not have access to your data they should
ensure that nobody else has access to
your data either why do you remember
that San Bernardino and you have there's
an argument between Apple and FBI
absolutely right you know Apple said
we're not giving you the back a little
clear ok so think about that in the
context of what we're talking about here
I don't think anybody should have that
backdoor dub access to your data a
foreign country you're not foreign
country no nobody should what I'm saying
is the only the only one that should
have say over who has access to your
data is you that's what it means to live
in it in a democracy right in a digital
world but then this gives me the
question so if you're saying the only
one that should have access to my data
that's fine we're on we're in agreement
there but if China is hacking into my
data and getting access to what I'm
doing you're saying the government
should prevent that from happening how
can they do that if they don't have
access to what I'm doing well they can
have access to the network they don't
have to have to ask you access to your
data right because if your data is
encrypted they can't actually see what
your data is but they can certainly see
what China is doing I mean that that
piece I'm confident that we have an
understanding what they're doing within
our networks just their actual
protecting that or preventing that from
happen doesn't occur that's why by the
way China built the Great Firewall
because they wanted to protect their
population because they realize that if
they didn't protect their population
then globalization and the open Internet
would allow for democratic values to
seep in so they wanted to protect their
people from influence that came from
outside there's a good move I think
that's a great move because if you're
connected to a totalitarian regime and
you're open and the totalitarian regime
is intent on influencing your population
the way we've designed our current
internet absolutely lost but doesn't
that mean that we become total
totalitarian if we do that as well like
to match against them we kind of have to
if we if we did what they did right so
they did what they didn't protect their
individual data from them as a
government they just protected it from
the outside so they build a wall around
it what I'm telling you use you you have
control over your data
not the government not our government
not their government not Twitter not
Facebook that you own it and so if
Facebook's wants to sell your data then
they have to get your permission and may
even have to pay you to do so if they
want to someone if they want to sell
your data who are you more concerned
about it totally totalitarian regime or
the large technology companies I would
say today they have the same business
model really of course tell me why look
at them today the both China and
Facebook have sensors China sends their
sensors to school what do the sensors
learn the sensors actually learn about
Tiananmen Square the truth right okay
because they have to censor that
discussion on the network Facebook has
sensors the sensors go to school to
learn what they need the sensor on
Facebook's network right same business
model it's about free data it's about
using that data except for this one it's
about profit for this one it's about
control and they even down to the
sensors they have the same model you're
putting them at the same level Wow I'm
not saying no I'm not at the same level
because one is about profit one's about
control what I'm telling you is the
system that we built the technological
foundations of the system we built then
the app services and business models
that we built on top of that allow for
power to be equated with aggregation of
data when you do that you create
business models the business model of a
large tech company is equivalent to the
business model of China so do you think
you know how for them like they don't
they don't allow Twitter or Facebook
YouTube to go and they have their own
YouTube they have their own Facebook all
of that that they have do you think are
you suggesting that we should only
create it for us and not have it
available to other countries to have
access to or social media but that or
that's not what you're saying that's not
what I'm saying
okay so you're not saying for the
firewall where the social media is just
now no you're saying firewall to protect
us from somebody else coming through the
system and really what I was saying and
what if you go to page 19 of the
national security strategy it says it
right there we're going to
nationwide secure 5g network in other
words we're going to be able to build a
network unlike any network that's ever
been built before
and it's really about protecting
individual data so that you have control
of your data and nobody else does and
then you can figure out how to how to
use it and that then we would take that
and you know network that we built and
then we share it with our our Democratic
allies and partners if you build a
network network like this a totalitarian
regime can't control the population
because they can't prevent them they
don't know what they with the
information they have access to they
can't see into what they're saying right
which is what you can have in China they
can't block you out from having other
information that they might not want you
to have because I can't see what you're
doing and it really becomes a
competitive advantage both from economic
standpoint but also from a societal
standpoint let me ask you this when you
came out and you had the meeting and you
talked about China the way you did right
and you kind of said here's what we have
to worry about with this side and this
is what they're gonna be doing there may
be our biggest they are our biggest
threat and then here's 5g what's really
going on did you immediately get a sense
on who was for you and who was against
your talking points it's kind of like in
this room if I all of a sudden say Tom
Brady's the greatest of all time
within five seconds I know who waits the
Patriots and who likes him right did you
kind of sit there and say oh wow that
guy crossed his arms he's definitely not
happy he's curious did you get that
feeling yes and was it cross the board
one side politically or was it both
sides were happy and said so so let's go
back to 5g right you know what I'm
asking you I know exactly what you're
asking once the decision made to
confront China that was a process that
was just going to run I didn't need to
really focus on that I focused on 5g I
focused on a secure internet when I
started sharing because what I had done
is I spoke to and you know network
engineers people that build networks
when I started sharing the ideas of
though that we had come up with if I had
been smarter politically at the time I
would have known exactly how to answer
that question and I would have said
anybody that's got telecom in their
portfolio was immediately against it
because
economy industry was immediately against
it right that was that was a clear
signal that if I was paying attention at
the time and really understood DC in a
political way I would again I was a
national security professional I was a
military guy I didn't really get into
politics but in in in much the way same
way that you see industry influence on
just about anything in DC the industry
the telecom industry in particular was
once this and kind of made its way
outside of government channels because
those people that are in a telecom job
in DC have some relationship with the
industry it that information got out
once it got out the industry said uh-huh
and and that's when I you know started
my pathway to having my paper leaked and
me asked to leave the national security
cam did you come would do you know how
sometimes you know if you say something
you you either don't know the
consequence of you saying something or
you know and you say it anyways which
one were you I would say that both are
you okay right so some of them I did not
and some of them I didn't know I didn't
know the political lay of the land but
at the end of the day it was about
preserving our republic it was about our
Constitution it was about national
security it's not about me it was never
about me went the first time day one
when I take the oath of office and in
putting on the uniform it's not about me
anymore
it's about the Constitution it's about
preserving the Republic
there's if if it ever became about me
then that's my time to leave do you
think most people start like a statement
statesman like you and then when you're
around too much then you get kind of a
tainted based on the environment you're
on you know what I'm you know what I'm
saying right you get in to me most
people I see originals like you I really
want to make an impact I really want to
do this it's statements mentality right
any or like a we have an opportunity
make 10 million year or 15 million here
22 million and we can have control over
here we can have more influence here do
you think starts that went into the
changes where if you want to move up you
kind of need to get a little bit out
there and accept the reality of what
politics could do well so
I look at myself as an entrepreneur and
when you take somebody that's
entrepreneurial and that really believes
in the oath of office that they've taken
and then you put him in a bureaucracy
where they're not you I had when I went
to China that I took a year at language
institute two years living in China
that's three years I told the airforce
I'd give them back three for one so that
added 10 years to my commitment and so
as time went on that and as I rose up in
the ranks and I would move say every
year I would get a two-year commitment
so you move every year and get a
two-year commitment you never really
have the opportunity to get out and so
I'm an entrepreneur I'm living in a
bureaucracy but I can't leave I have no
I have no choice I have to stay so I can
either say you know get angry about it
right that I'm beating my head against
the wall because you know things need to
be done or I can just learn to you know
live within it and try to drive as much
change as deep as I can for as long as
I'm there I asked this question for one
reason like you know you listen to Joe
Biden he's been in the world in the
pilot political world for a long time
right yeah okay
did he start off you know having to play
all these political games that you have
to play or was it a good cause and you
look at Mitch McConnell two names that
you talk about in your back ones the
Republican was a Democrat and they're
both have some ties to China right one
Mitch McConnell 1993 I think he married
his wife whose father's a very powerful
I don't know if you want to say to
business owner entrepreneur and they're
connected to the communistic regime and
then on the other side Joe Biden his son
Hunter it's all over the news
everybody's hearing about all the issues
with what happened there I ask it again
this is not something that's a favorable
to Democrats not liking China or wanting
to support China or this is not just
Republicans not liking China or dislike
in China this is purely on both sides on
what you're seeing all right and and
when you
and investigated more were you kind of
like oh my gosh I didn't know the Biden
family was like this or the McConnell
was it one of those things where the
more and more and more research and
investigation you did the more like this
is bigger than you thought it was did
you have one of those moments yourself
well there was so the one moment that I
had was when I got the briefing in the
fall of 2014 that was from one of the
major audit firms and when I looked when
I opened that briefing and I realized
you know a lot of the elements of that
we would use to attack a country using
an air attack I saw play out in front of
my eyes using economics finance and
information and so you know that was a
that was a moment it broke my mind
because up until that point I thought
the America is the greatest nation on
earth and we're unassailable we're the
most powerful you know nothing could
happen to us and that was a point when I
realized that no I mean we could have
carrier battle groups nuclear subs f-35s
and all of this capability and spend
eight hundred billion dollars a year on
defense but if our society was basically
being attacked at their job level at
their societal level then we had lost
ability to protect our nation in a
globalized internet powered world and
from that point on I just started
studying and and I read everything I
could and I talked to everybody I could
so because I had been at the Council on
Foreign Relations I had access to a lot
of executives of finance companies of
investment companies and so I started
going around and talking to you know
there are some of their research offices
and talking to people and trying to
understand what was going on in our
country and how global business work how
global finance worked how did investment
work and what you know did I ever stop
finding rot no it's I find it every
single day as you you continue to pull
back the layers of it you realize it
goes through a society because it's
based on this fundamental belief that
openness will lead to democracy and that
is a key to China the Chinese Communist
Party's power because when we believe
that open must
would lead to democracy they said
there's my opportunity because they're
gonna let me have access to their
finance their trade their investment
their immigration their media their
politics the Internet academia I have
access to everything you know think
about Commodore Perry sailing in with
the great flight fleet into Japan he had
to use guns to get into Japan we just
let the Chinese in and sometimes we
force them to pay sometimes we just gave
it to him it's kind of a part of their
philosophy though if you think about the
whole Confucius and art of war its
battling without having a battle right
the whole philosophy there you talk
which was brilliant when you talked
about in the book but what did you learn
from the McConnell family and what did
you learn from Biden's connection to
China what I learned at the White House
and this is really at the White House
because when you before you go to the
White House
you always hear these stories about you
know it's the White House calling you
know people like stand-up or like you
know how can I help you
so I'm at the White House and I'm
working with think tanks and law firms
trying to number one expose what the
Chinese were doing but number two come
up with you know credible policy options
that we could implement that would get
them you know that would prevent them
from taking advantage of our population
and time after time they say sorry I
can't help you I don't want to anger my
Chinese funders or my Chinese customers
my partners don't you know aren't
comfortable with us because we have a
lot of shipping business in China and
I'm like I'm calling from the White
House and our top would they be this
answer top think tanks and the top law
firms in the country we're telling me I
can't help you and so you know I knew
about I knew this already right so it
but then when you you really get an
understanding of okay if they won't even
help the White House then we've got a
serious serious problem what did you
learn about McConnell and Biden family
well so I put they're the only ones that
I named in the book and the reason I did
is because it's all out in the open you
can go read the sources a New York Times
report Wall Street Journal reports Biden
his son went with him on Air Force two
over to China ten days later is named a
board member of Bo high harvest hedge
fund which is a billion and a half
dollar hedge fund McConnell you already
talked about his his family his
father-in-law knows John Ziemann former
chairman of the Chinese Communist Party
and his sister-in-law is on the board of
the Bank of China all right
what influence would you say is there
you would they would say there is no
influence that just happened
part of McConnell it happens to be my
family relationships on the part of
Biden he would say that was my son you
really had nothing to do with me
although he did go over with him on Air
Force two but that being said it's not
about quid pro quo
it's about adopting chicheme pings world
view and his world view at which he says
that Davos many times is globalization's
good you know we should we should
continue to have open markets we should
continue to have open systems so that we
can all collectively do well together as
a global community that's that's
essentially I'm paraphrasing what Xi
Jinping says but that's not what he
believes because if you read the Chinese
Communist Party documents like for
instance the document number nine that
have been that have come out of the
country and have been translated then
you realize they repudiate every single
element of for example the Atlantic
charger which is a good one page
template for the international order
signed by FDR in Winston Churchill eight
paragraphs one page democratic
principles free trade rule of law and
self-determination
that's it that's that in a nutshell that
tells you about what the UN WTO Bretton
Woods all that's about the Chinese
Communist Party doesn't believe in any
of those so when it's when he goes to
Davos Xi Jinping goes to Davos and he
says we need to stay open for business
it's not we need to stay to open for
business because democracy human rights
civil liberty and rule of law are great
it's because if you stay open for
business
I can ensure that we have access to
science technology innovation in capital
and talent so let me ask this question
so for me I used to be in business with
a guy who behind closed doors this one
guy I would always look at him and I
would talk to him he was always afraid
of one guy and he couldn't stand the
other guy was working with but it was
frightened of him why are you afraid of
that guy you know and I would always ask
him trying to figure out why you're
afraid of this guy why are you afraid of
this guy finally a year and a half later
I found out what it was so he was doing
some things with business behind closed
doors and it was not great it was a
little bit past great close to you know
breaking the law and eventually he got
caught but under the table he was paying
him twenty five thousand dollars a month
cash not 1099 not w2 which 25 cash is
50k among pre-tax right the same as
$600,000 your income so one day he's
upset and you know he tells one of my
competitors and that comes to me and I
find out about it like now it makes
sense why he is afraid of him but then
when he stopped paying to $25,000 cash
the other guy told everybody about his
business and he lost it anyways right
right so for me here's how it here's how
I view it and I want to get your
perspective to see how you see this the
MBA situation right now with what's
going on with LeBron right or not just
LeBron there was Maury Maury right the
Houston GM yeah makes a comment about
YouTube it you know what's going on over
there and then they're upset canceling
golf preseason games and then all of a
sudden the owner of Houston makes his
comments and then from there Adam silver
says I support freedom of speech Steve
Kerr didn't want to say anything because
he kind of didn't have a wasn't too
educated on the situation at that time
Popovich said a few words and then
LeBron says maybe he misspoke right he
would what he shouldn't have said so for
me I look at that it's okay why is this
happened I want to kind of get your
thoughts as but why why are they doing
this okay why would they be doing this
is
political to me it's not political to me
it's one and a half billion viewers
there same reason why US is trying to
make movies over there and you're
getting rock making movies doing six
hundred million dollars here with giving
love to China versus just doing it it's
another market actually to me that's
pretty honest because it's money play
right it's not political play or
anything man we can sell one-and-a-half
billion people more shoes we can sell
them more media we can go out there and
you know get the games to go over there
instead of making a 40 million year we
make fifty million right 60 million year
in a situation like this before I asked
you to LeBron opinion but in a situation
like this do you do you process it from
the standpoint of well maybe mitch has
some a business that he's doing it out
of respect to his wife he's just kind of
given the respect to China and maybe
Biden's son has some respect and it's a
son you know you don't have fifty sons
you had a couple sons it's blood he's
just trying to protect his son to do
what he's doing
do you think that is an acceptable
reasoning to allow them to do what
they're doing or should it be America
first because of the responsibilities
that you have then your kids your wife
your family how do you process that well
let me put it this way and this was
really something I had told my wife
leading up to 2016 elections now you
were in the military right if I had any
of the relationships that I just talked
about there is no way I could have a
security clearance wouldn't happen I
could not get that through the system it
would not grant me a top secret security
if you were let me clarify if you're
Mitch McConnell or Joe Biden would those
a relationship you wouldn't be able to
get the security clearance that you're
right fair enough right yep absolutely
this just facts so if I had done if I
had taken my you know personal email or
my professor my work email and basically
taking that all off and put it on you
know a server and had some classified
message what do you think would happen
to me you're fired you you know you're
you're Marshall yeah or Marshall
absolutely kicked out I don't want you
right no there's no doubt sure and so as
you see these things these kinds of
things that that I know that you know
whoever's gets elected as
and chief has a responsibility there
that they are the the the chief diplomat
there the chief law enforcement arm
officer there the commander in chief so
how can that person have the kind of
relationships that I as a military
member can team have a security
clearance with or do the kind of things
that I would be fired or court-martialed
with so you know I it's pretty
black-and-white of me when you're the
commander of chief and you are requiring
the people that work for you that swear
an oath that are working for you as the
chief executive particularly commander
in chief because commander of a military
force is much different than being the
senior executive at a company it's a
completely different type of authority
over somebody you know the authority to
to not just fire but also in prison
right because that's court-martial
authority and you and yet you do the
things that you say or you must enforce
that they cannot do then you've you've
created a problem and we this is
pervasive in our system that our
politicians can have the kind of
relationships that we can't even allow
our military members to have security
clearances having let's leave that aside
okay we'll just set that aside now you
have the president United States saying
here's a non-market economy that we
basically let into the WTO in 2001 and
they broke every rule in the book and
continued to and they're not going to
stop so you know what we're gonna do
we're gonna treat them just like we did
prior to going to w2 prior to going the
WTO they had to have a vote on most
favored nation status every single year
right once that stopped then corporate
money started pouring in foreign direct
investment started pouring into China
and they grew like crazy
they took seventy thousand factories and
3.4 million manufacturing jobs and so
the President of the United States says
okay
they're clearly not don't have any
intention on following the rules we're
gonna put tariffs on because that's what
we had before they start we started and
we let them in we're gonna do the same
exact thing and then you have Joe Biden
and you have Mitch McConnell saying
that's a bad idea
now does that relation to those
relationships contribute to that or is
it just because they believe that I
don't know the answer to that but I
guarantee you
any counterintelligence officer that
brought me into interrogation asked me
why I made that decision they would have
grounds to say you know you're
untrustworthy you didn't report that you
know you're you're your relative was
making you know millions of dollars from
the Chinese or you didn't report that
you've got millions of dollars from the
Chinese so I'm not saying that there's
quid pro quo there but there's enough of
hey I don't like tariffs - hey I've
adopted Xi Jinping's worldview - hey
this is actually harmful to the United
States I'll leave it to other people to
kind of figure that out it's not for me
to figure out it is for me to say that
if I had done it on active duty in the
military I'd either not have a security
clearance that I've been court-martialed
so so let me ask you this that same
argument you got two different
communities here okay you got those who
have political power and influence say
McConnell Biden and many other names who
support China and they're saying hey
take it easy right there an ally I think
you went to the Department of Commerce
and they said China's not the adversary
they're our friends we cooperate with
them these were the words you wrote in
your book right okay so on one side you
have the political people that they
shouldn't be doing this because if they
have interest with their kids wife
whatever okay then the other side is
investors business owners right hedge
fund folks entrepreneurs folks who made
their money in America yet they they
want to make sure China still has the
ability to do business because they lose
money right this goes to the bottom line
right do you think their motives is okay
because it's just purely money and they
want to protect their investments for
themselves their clients their
businesses and these two are complete
different ways to be held accountable
that's the system we built right yes I
know exactly what you're asking that's
the system we built and so you can't
criticize businessman because they're
our system says you owe fiduciary
responsibility to the shareholder that's
your job and and oh by the way you can
actually be sued or brought up on
charges for not doing your job not
fulfilling your fiduciary
responsibilities so there could be an
argument made that if you're not
cooperating with the Chinese Communist
Party that you're actually harming your
company okay there you go right so so
you can't criticize them for that what
you can criticize is the policies of the
government that allowed for the behavior
to occur in the first place and I'll
give you an example level 1 versus level
3 assets I talked about in the book
China has non-committal currency strict
capital controls since 2015 you can't
get money out of the country only in
special circumstances and only depending
on what the business is you're doing so
then we have plenty of corporations that
have billions of dollars over there that
they're carrying on their financial
statements that's level one assets
meaning just like cash in the bank here
but you can't get it and so but if
you're showing profits and it's going in
to cash in the bank in China then how
are you being compensated as an
executive or or on a board of directors
for that company you're probably getting
compensated based on the money you're
making in China but yet the shareholders
can never see that money because you
have strict capital controls in a non
convertible currency
okay so we've created an incentive
system just based on our accounting
standards faz B and the Securities
Exchange Commission can change this the
Treasury Department could change this
and say no if it's in China it's non
convertible currency strict capital
controls they can't get the money out
that's a level three asset and therefore
all you corporations need to do a
restatement what would that say now CEOs
wouldn't want to invest in China because
they it wouldn't count story their
conversation now board of directors
wouldn't advise the CEO that they should
invest in China because it wouldn't take
towards the compensation we build a
system that incentivizes behavior for
the destruction of the country that's
not the fault of the business community
that's a fault of the government great
point so it's so essentially a company
who runs a sales organization runs a
compensation structure that produces bad
behavior it's not the sales person's
fault it's the end it's the
organization's fault for producing
compensation structure the way did so
what you're saying is a complete
restructure of our agreements and
arrangements with China you're talking
about having to change a lot of things
for us to move forward you're not just
saying some Sal here but but I'm not
saying that we're that we're doing
something that's untoward I'm just
saying let's follow the rules for
instance in invest
right let's let's us blow the rules for
everybody
China's all - everyone - right exactly
so they're not going to follow the rules
though right then for example so let's
go into investing so now right now we
have MSCI all world index going from
went from zero to five percent to 20
percent weighting in and Chinese
equities right okay Chinese companies
they come here they register your stocks
and list on some of our exchanges but
let's go the unlisted ones the
registered ones that's a trillion
dollars they've made off our capital
markets there's no audit or transparency
requirements that resembles anything
that a US company has to follow right so
a Chinese company can come in here and
get registered and get listed on our
Stock Exchange and get access to our
retirement funds that's what MSCI MSCI
all World Index is followed by all the
institutional investors and the
endowments the university endowments so
our retirement funds get sent over to
China to pay for investments so we have
no idea actually what they have because
they don't have the same audit and
transparency requirements as a unit of a
US company that's a policy that we have
right now so China can register and list
their stocks on our exchanges and our
retirement investment investment
officers can send money over to China
and they don't have to correspond to the
same rules that US companies have - so
make Chinese companies correspond to the
exact same rules that US companies have
- and I'll tell you why they won't
because sending over the audit data is a
national security violation in China in
other words it is treason for you to
send the audit information from a
Chinese company to the US let me ask you
do you see any possibility of an
agreement coming up with all these
technicalities this is not a small thing
here
okay so you are or you know Chinese have
already decided to decouple it's not
about us decoupling it's about the
Chinese Communist Party maintaining
control over their society and in order
to maintain control over their society
they need to maintain control over the
state-owned enterprise system that they
built which says that we are not going
to a Buy
by US laws about sending it over audit
and transparency requirements if you
force us to do that tough we're not
going to how China took over while the
America's elite slept okay is the
monster too big right not to control no
not at all okay that's what I was asking
so it's not yet so what would be some of
the things I know you talked about it at
the end of the book but if you're saying
monsters not too big to control is that
your four points that you talked about
at the end of the book it is let's get
to the end of the interview with that I
want to go into that right now because
we'll get to that while we're going
through it so okay so we just talked
about business what responsibilities
they have etc etc and we talked about
politics
what are your views on how MBA is
handling the bullying of China saying
hey we're gonna not show any of the
preseason games in China do you know
what ECMO machine is no so an ECMO
machine is a machine that is used to
keep a body alive when heart and lungs
are failing okay so it takes blood out
of the system it oxygenates it and puts
blood back I actually knew somebody that
had been hooked up to one of those
things it's not it's not a fun thing
when you're dying and hooked up to an
ECMO machine Chyna if you say you're a
dissident your Bureau your Falun Gong
you're a Christian you're a Muslim and
you get sentenced to say seven years in
prison for for being a you know
religious follower and you won't stop
they'll type your blood no sequence your
DNA and they'll give you an ultrasound
your organs and you go in a match list
if that match comes up they'll hook you
up to an ECMO machine hook your body up
to an ECMO machine they'll give you an
injection to paralyze you and they'll
have a surgeon come and remove your
organs put them into somebody that's
come in for hundreds of thousand dollars
to buy your organs to have it put
because they need a heart or need a
liver or need two kidneys or whatever
and when they've taken all the organs
out that they can use they'll throw the
body in the incinerator so when we do
things like equate that kind of behavior
with say
the social challenges that we have in
the United States then it then it shows
a fundamentally misunderstanding of the
difference between a democracy and a
totalitarian regime and that's that's
what I find so infuriating about what
the NBA is doing because that kind of
behavior that's what that's the kind of
behavior that Hitler was doing that's
the kind of behavior that existed in
Stalin's Soviet Union that's the kind of
behavior that the Chinese Communist
Party is doing today you can go look it
up on the UK tribunal on the forced
organ harvesting of prisoners of
conscience summary reports their final
reports coming they've interviewed
hundreds of people this is happening and
yet we equate you know our social
challenges here in the United States
with that kind of behavior in China that
is I think the challenge of the NBA is
not understanding and understanding who
they valid themselves with so let's take
away the fiduciary responsibility that
you know the NBA Commissioner has to not
anger the Chinese Communist Party
because the NBA makes a lot of money
there let's take that away let's say
he's an American and a lot of Americans
died fighting to stop the kinds of
things that are going on right now in
communist controlled China so business
guy understand it American I can't for
the life of me understand it you know
only the only reason it is is because
they do such a good job of obfuscating
of hiding what they do which is why
they've titled the book of stealth war
and we've done a very very poor job of
opening in our eyes and the reason we've
done a poor job of opening in our eyes
is because we are being compensated
welcome to look the other way so fine
let's just say I watch this and you said
this on I'm gonna be a person I'm like
okay what are you talking about I don't
really you know I get that but
everybody's got dirt on their hands
America does look what America did to
Japan look what America did to so you
know that's the argue
right so so everybody's done some stuff
how many people do we do this how many
times have we killed people so we have
blood on our hands as well somebody from
being being watching this we're just
trying to do business you know we're
just trying to make sure we keep a
relationship with them because we want
those 1.5 billion eyeballs that's what
we're trying to do we saw what happened
to Berkeley when he went to the Olympics
and it from there Kobe's the identity
Olympics after you know the the center
from Houston
Yao Ming and then now LeBron is getting
bigger all these guys are getting a big
exposure there what's wrong with us
wanted to keep our relationship with
China's solid to not create any kind of
a issue between us let the politicians
go at it which is basketball players
we're just trying to play over there and
entertain that audience as well yeah and
I would say not surprising because
people were doing it for Hitler and when
those army soldiers walked in the Dachau
and saw what the hell was going on there
you know I would have hated it to be one
of those guys seeing that to see that
you know what could be done to people
and you know I don't know what else to
say about yeah the horror of this thing
that that that that we can sit here and
basically say you know that's not my D
that's not my deal I'm gonna get my my
compensation deal I look I get that I
get the other thing where people were
saying well you know America is just as
bad as everybody else okay
but you know it's just not III can't see
it for me it just it doesn't make sense
to me it did I don't think it or
whatever makes sense to me I just don't
like us to be bullied I've never been a
fan of bullies net my entire life I've
never liked bullies and I've never liked
games and if you allow a bully to
constantly bully you and you walk on
eggshells with the next moves you're
making you will forever walk on
eggshells because they officially know
that they scared you and so the next
time you do something it gets deeper and
deeper and deeper it almost goes to the
story of the Roy Jones guy that worked
at Marriott right I think his name is
Roy Jones because same as the boxer
right it's working on Marriott and if
you can elaborate on what happened with
the story with him liking the tweets
yeah he worked in the social media
Department of Marriott corporation you
like to tweet about Tibet it was from a
it was a the tweet was from a Tibetan
dissident group he didn't know anything
about Tibet he didn't know anything
about China
he was just saw that somebody had you
know given a shout-out to Marriott and
he's like he liked the tweet Shanghai
Tourism Bureau found out about it
Chinese called the Marriott corporations
they deal with this person and apologize
and they fired him and apologized the
NBA situation is no different where they
almost fired Maury this is and by the
way this is happening it's happened to
mercedes-benz it's having the Tiffany's
that's happened you know it's a Cathay
Pacific I don't know if you remember the
CEO resigned rather than giving up the
names for the people that were working
for Cathay that we're going with the
people of Hong Kong in the protest and
oh by the way where do the people of
Hong Kong protesting being exercised
extradited to a country that could
basically put them on a donor list so I
mean it's it is really a fundamental
difference there's a there's a stark
difference in the type of country that
you live in where you know we live in
today where the NBA players live and the
country that is China and the the
problem is and there's a good article
op-ed by Li yuan who's who's from China
in the New York Times recently talking
about what it's like to live in China
and not understand the world you're
living in because of the indoctrination
and control over you know the way they
think so when you go there you might
think everybody's happy well they are
happy because they have very little
access to anything to know anything else
now this this Roy Jones guy from
Marriott did he get caught because the
government is surveilling every move we
make social media or is it the culture
because I was in UK a few months ago and
I was sitting out with a couple people
saying UK we used to be people that we
protected our nation now the government
has taught people to become spies and
all tell on each other or is it the
culture of China of telling on each
other and say look what he's doing look
what he's doing is it more they have you
know a whole massive community around
the world that's still watching out for
China or is it actually the government
associate
but I have they have knowledge they have
huge numbers monitoring so it's powerful
but they also have their citizens that
are taught you know that this is an
affront to China you know that the Hong
Kong people aren't don't really want
peace there they're like the the
protester or not the they're like a
terrorists of 9/11 what is the biggest
difference in the way you do business in
China versus the way you do business in
US and here's what I mean by it I don't
mean I go start a business in China and
since 2015-2016 I can't take profits I'm
not talking about that I'm talking about
I'm a Chinese citizen I live in China I
want to start a business and compete a
marketplace there what is the difference
between me competing in China and what
kind of ways I'm controlled versus me
competing in America oh that that's easy
there you can do whatever you want in
China in China it's literally it means
that whatever you need to do to get
ahead is is fair game as long as you
don't challenge the Communist Party
whatever
steal you no trick anything I mean
seriously seriously not against each
other dole yes against each other it is
the most cutthroat come you know you
know in a lot of ways it's the most
capitalist system there is I think
there's little regulation there there is
no regulation which is why you have the
challenges that you have with regard to
fentanyl and other things because you
know if you're making profits and laws
it's not causing problems for the
Chinese Communist Party any things so
you want you want to have a business
your competitor has a proprietary
formula for something you go find the
guy that has a proprietary formula hire
them and and bring them in and hire Minh
and you can do that it's now the the guy
can sue you but you know this is a kind
of behavior that happens all the time
there if there's such things as patents
they're like can I just steal your idea
no you can't sue me you know how there's
a two-year patent being that nobody can
use and you have the rights to go and
put it out there first
or I come steal it from you you can't do
nothing about it you can't take me to
court so they do have patents okay and
you can sue and and sometimes you can
even win but you know in the end what
the what the government is looking for
and it's watching out for and
particularly
it's in industries that they care about
like 5g right didn't they're not really
focused on some industries but they are
focus on for instance made in 2020 made
China made in China 2025 really pulls
out ten industries if it's one that
they're focused on then they'll they'll
look at that competition and then they
will incentivize those that are starting
to rise to the top and so but if you
happen to be you know part of the
Chinese Communist Party
you know leadership family then you'll
have incentives to even more incentives
in another you will have more instant
you'll have more so over there is it the
typical old-school politics of if you
want to be rich first go into politics
have enough influence and then go
started we can't just go into politics
you can't know how do you you have to
you know even Xi Jinping applied to go
to the Chinese Communist Party like five
or six times before he is finally
accepted it's like a club right and once
you're in you know then you give them
into the club you know that you have to
demonstrate your loyalty of the party
got it I'll continue to apply it is not
I mean it's very similar you can just
going it is very similar someone to the
money to be a made man you have to do
everything you have oil to them and then
they bring you in the reason they've
given Xi Jinping so so much power by the
way is because he is probably the most
dialed in to what the Chinese Communist
Party believes of anybody like if if you
said who is the most communist of the
Chinese Communist Party Xi Jinping is
that guy and that's the only reason they
get out of all the power you how
powerful is their economy right now like
how much control do they have what areas
are they taking it I know like eighty
percent of AC you know when you look at
these numbers here what are some of the
stats you know about how powerful China
has become you mean in terms of economy
manufacturing production what they're
building steel phones shoes well I mean
so just one of the things I said in the
book from 2011 2013 they poured more
concrete in those two years and we did
an entire 20th century that's very
important for you to state this one more
time they did more in two years of
pouring concrete
I remember the stat then us did in 114
years yes is that a factual statement
factual statement I'm gonna I'm gonna
find it and let's put it because if that
is true
two years versus a hundred and fourteen
what was that all about when you talk
about that they're building 9220 cities
with the average population of five to
ten million and one of the city's become
the Silicon Valley it's like by a lake
but they won't give the name of what the
city's name is gonna be and it's got 550
square feet of office space where 95% is
not occupant and they're willing to sell
it for cheap and rent it for cheap like
is that really part of the strategy if
you want to keep people employed and you
have one model and you're facing a
financial challenge then you go back to
the model it's just like if it's working
don't don't make it quit the problem
that they run into is can they get the
raw materials in the energy and the food
to actually sustain that and what
they've needed to do that is to get US
dollars and we've enabled them through
our trading relationship with them to do
that you know recently with the tariffs
they'd have they've had to dip into the
capital markets and get through MSC I
get money from mm-hmm from our
retirement funds but for the most part
it keeps people employed and that's that
by the way is also why the belt and
wrote in this should have exists it's
not just an an opportunity to really
gain control of the Eurasian landmass
it's also an ability to offload some of
its spare capacity in order to employ
Chinese you know they harvest most of
the world's frozen fish right they
export 50% of their catch right and
there's a million people employed in the
frozen fish industries right so it's
it's all about keeping people employed
and so that while they dominate these
industries it's not because not merely
because they want to dominate the
industry it's because they want to
maintain legit estate the way you
maintain legitimacy is keep people
employed 9220 cities with the population
of five to ten million that's nuts to me
well to be able to build something like
that well think about if you're gonna
build a city though the best way to
build a city is to build it a total
green green field right if you're if
you're building a city or if you're
increasing the size of a city say like
Shanghai it's far more expensive than
this is to go out in the middle of a
field and build a city right you don't
have to do all the you don't have to
tear down and rebuild and be
go through all the things used to build
a city and and and I think if you if you
think about how they financed it with
our recovery money a lot of it a lot of
the loans came from us banks with
recovery money and not in that the price
of those things collapse as they talked
about in the book now you have an
ability to move the extra three or four
hundred million of people that are out
in the country into those cities I mean
that's very that's a very it's brilliant
brilliant formula absolutely but what
what's the motive behind not allowing
you to foreclose on your home like if
you have a hundred thousand dollar loan
on your home you're late four thousand
dollars
they don't foreclose on the home they
just add two four thousand dollars that
you're late on the loan-outs $104,000 is
that actually the banking so it's
brilliant is that really what they yes
it's brilliant you're serious that so
that that is a real actual methodology
for that right did you understand that
part like so you got a hundred thousand
dollar loan I'm going through crisis I
miss couple payments I still stay in the
home they just tack it on the loan at
the oh you're not even in them you've
probably got four or five of these
things do you think that's a good
formula though good formula for a wife
or any other person any other banking
system to use well but wouldn't you have
a strict capital controls national
currency you have essentially a closed
financial system these banks can't get
their money out so you can keep doing it
you doing it that's just it's brilliant
yeah so if if we will if we were doing
that yeah those would be flowing out of
this country well let me ask you you
know how the whole saying goes that if
you got somebody that's coming up and
they're competing with you you know beat
them while they're small don't let them
get too big right right it's too late
well what what I mean is beating them
because okay let's transition into five
G let's talk about five G because you
know this whole thing when I think Trump
tweeted out something in 2014 and he
said remember China is not our friends
or not our ally and he got like 300
retweets
it wasn't something big he tweeted this
back in 2014 or 2015 and then all of a
sudden you know one
they everybody in the news is Tom l5g
and prior to that day we were really
talking about it all of a sudden hey we
got to be the leader on 5 June like 5g
someone's started looking 5g ok 1g 2g 3G
1g is the regular phone back in the days
to G is whatever 3G is the iPhone you
know and then 4G is the latest one and
now 5g is gonna be changing a game and
most people go to 5 G's just a faster
phone right because that's what
initially if we've always seen the G
linked to a phone oh my gosh I can
download a movie in 3.6 seconds now on
Netflix a 2 hour movie where before it
was three minutes or six minutes
whatever right when you think about 5g
what do you think about of 5g and the
capabilities and what it can really do
to whoever that has access to it that's
a good question so if you go back to
2007 and when the iPhone came out the 7
2007 the top 5 in market cap were 80
General Electric Microsoft ExxonMobil
and shell mm-hmm right the phone comes
out in in 2007 we have I had one 3G
networking it's not a very good not a
very good experience for G network comes
out by the way we're the second country
in the world to build a 4G network now
you've got something right so when still
Steve Ballmer laughed at Steve Jobs said
we don't need one of those when you took
the the platform which was the iPhone
and you married up to the 4G network
which is which was the pipe for data and
it was a fast enough pipe now you can
create the apps services of business
models that in ten years led to the top
five in market cap being Facebook Amazon
Netflix Google and Microsoft right so
the Chinese see this and like huh the
platform and the pipe so the smartphone
this thing this iPhone you know which
was the first one then Android so apple
an ant Apple and Google right dominate
the mobile platform that the app
services and business models of that
economy are built on now look at that
iPhone it's a hardware software tightly
integrated closed walled system like in
Steve Jobs liked and the data was
encrypted
why was the data encrypted
why did San Bernardino happen because
apples in the American company right you
know you want privacy they encrypt the
phone so now you've got the platform and
Android also went tune on to encrypt
their platform so both encrypted right
so private devices take the cloud away
from it just look at the devices so it's
meant to be a private device why it's
American American product fast forward
you know to 2009 China starts to look at
that says okay we want to dominate the
next level right not that not just a
technology we want the app services and
business models to be Chinese companies
and so qua weight gets hundreds of
billions of dollars to develop 5g and
ZTE but then you have Baidu Alibaba and
$0.10 so they're there behind the
Chinese firewall they're protected you
can have the fangs going in there it's
just the bats that control the e economy
within China and then you start at the
same time you're developing 5g right the
platform and I'll get to that in a
second but you're also developing and
Baidu Alibaba in $0.10 so now when you
walk into and you're starting to see the
emergence of the 5g world in China so
you walk into a restaurant after you've
ordered your food and a camera picks you
up and you said David welcome here's
your food right so you you're starting
to get the feel of what a 5g world is
and what is a 5g world the platform is
the network so this is mobile computing
paired with the pipe 5g is computing and
networking combined on the same platform
so this goes away you walk outside your
door and you say uber you don't get on
your phone and say I want to know where
you say uber camera picks up your face
or a microphone picks up you come on
that's what 5g is that's what 5g is and
then the uber shows up the uber there's
a camera on the car that sees you knows
who you are don't have to ask you your
name you get in and you go to wherever
you want you get out and you go do
whatever you want so in this world in
the 4G world this is a platform it's
yours right you don't want to be built
you don't want to be part of that all of
that data member we just talked about
how do you influence society you
all that data to be out there about what
you're doing just don't carry one of
these right just opt out in a 5g world
you cannot opt out who owns the data
this you could conceivably say you lease
the data on here you own if you're
getting Google services you don't own
that data but in the five-year rule not
only can you not opt out because it's
built around the city it's not in your
phone anymore not only can you not nopt
out you don't know who owns the data
everything that you do can be watched
and for every person by 2022 there's
gonna be for every there's two cameras
for every for every person there's to
two people for every camera in in China
by 2022
they have a billion right now I'm
billion cameras in China with artificial
intelligence for facial recognition
right so all of this is getting built
right now in China and who's helping
them do it
Microsoft Google right all of these
companies that are want to deploy this
world into our country so Baidu Alibaba
and ten cents that's where the world
goes he goes from 2007 18 tge and in
Microsoft to the fangs to the bats right
who owns the pipes me as a b2 guy the
first thing I look at in the country is
who's where is the telecommunications
gotta take that out number one but if
rather instead of taking it out you own
or control it soap Huawei builds the
pipes then because you're behind the
Great Firewall you built the app
services and business models of the 5g
world and you're like I said you're
already starting to see that you know
where your facial recognition is
built-in to your interaction when you go
into a restaurant when you go into a
store when you go into a bank you know
everything's about you know the device
is connected then as you build the
network than those proliferate so 4G
network 10,000 devices per square mile
5g network three million devices per
square mile
you're not gonna carry 12 smartphones
you may not even carry a smartphone and
cousin to three million 10,000 three
that's what 5g does it the connectivity
explodes right so that allows you to put
devices literally everywhere that can
make your life more convenient or can
track you there's a bike in DC's called
mo bike have you seen these things
they're silver and orange look out for
him the next time you're in DC there's
silver in yours called mo bike they had
him when I was in 2016 when I get to
Beijing you take your phone and by the
way I took my I took a phone write a
telephone that I threw away when I got
home and I had said who threw it away
what do I do I'm going to go load all
the apps on it that a Chinese person has
so I can understand what they do you
never have to carry a wallet you never
have to carry key it's all done on your
phone you can pay any anybody anywhere
for anything and they do 900 people are
on WeChat and they spend 90% of their
time in app doing things you know
ordinaire Line tickets buying food
whatever you want you can have anything
not 100 people or nine hundred million
nine hundred million people okay so let
me let me explain to you how how
effective what they built is I have one
of the guys working for me on one of
these mobiles
now the mobike is it's just parked there
in the street with a lock on it you go
where you hit a QR code on your phone it
unlocks the bike you get on you ride it
and you lock the bike okay so where does
that data go you they know it's you you
got on that back you went to locations
okay so or you went to a location so
that data is available so I have one of
my guys he gets on a mobile BI ride
somewhere has his iPad in the basket
gets off the bike comes back the embassy
and realizes oh I forgot my iPad goes in
the the regional Security offices office
and says I forgot my iPad in my bike
calls a local Public Security Bureau and
those guys call the guy that's got his
iPad on his phone on a cell phone and
say can you bring the iPad back to the
embassy
that's how wired Beijing is right now so
if I'm if I'm by the way I heard about
self-regulating brake pads
self-regulating is that really the case
like your brake pads are gonna be fixing
everything there so it's there's there's
there is the very high speed low latency
things like if you need a surgeon in
Dallas to perform surgery on somebody
that's 60 miles away he can do that from
his office in Dallas and you can have a
robot you know in 60 miles away doing
the surgery it's called the tactile
internet that's coming that's part of
the that's part of this fabric in
addition to this kind of low-power thing
that you're talking about that just
sends a signal hey I've got somebody
passed by this location or I have I need
to change a brake pad all of that is
built into the 5g network so it really
becomes a network of machines not a
network of people but more importantly
there is terabytes and terabytes of data
that's created about you and you have no
control over it and the people that do
have control over it are the large tech
companies and you know increasingly
because 5g not just quoi way builds a
network but the 3gpp standards which is
the industry standard making body has
been dominated by China and so not only
the standards have been dominated by
China the underlying patents for the
technology of 5g have been dominated by
China so even if you're not building
Huawei you're still building Chinese
technology into your network so you have
Baidu Alibaba $0.10 Huawei you have the
technology and you have the app services
and business models you have everything
you need right so you used to have
Facebook Amazon Netflix Google dominant
as those other companies become dominant
because they've created the 5g world now
you're gonna see the ability for China
to boy control literally everywhere so
why would we want that technology why
would we want that technology wisely
precisely which is what the was what the
fight about Huawei is but I took it a
step further I say even if you're
building Ericsson nokia or Samsung
because China dominates the standards in
the technology you're still building a
lot of their technology into your
network so rather than doing that build
a military-grade network and deploy that
for the people give them access to the
same type of protections that we give
our military access to because we don't
want their day
to be spied on so for me I look at it
from this standpoint because then there
now I'll give the the other side of the
argument I'm curious I know what you'll
say about it because you know the whole
made in China 2025 and you know you read
the article and you kind of look at the
stats and you see how joy is from where
the operating system is from South Korea
I believe right it's Samsung it's from
South Korea
Apple iPhone is from us and then you
have Wow way and ZT all these guys are
from an TZ I think is it call right is
that what is ZT ZT e ZT is what is kind
ZT is limitless would Bradley Cooper my
brain would the whole different place so
you have Wow way from China that they're
making this phone right okay
on the 5g site if I'm looking at this
okay they're saying China's gonna be
ready to deploy 5g 2020 and everywhere
else they're not gonna be ready till
2025 China's ready 2020 we're not ready
till 2025 how much of a penetration in
the marketplace can China get having
access to 5g five years before us to get
it going versus us not having Acts
because Qualcomm everybody you talk to
them now we're not ready until 2025
we're not ready until 25 how much of a
negative impact is it going to have on
countries outside of China the fact that
they're starting in 2020 and most of us
one till 2025 well I think there's
they've sign up something like 90
countries to deploy 57 but maybe it's
not a country that was you know it's
move towards more accept us by the way
except the United States and Austria
everybody else is you know there's some
hemming and hawing them there's some of
course saying no but you know
essentially they have the lead this is
what this is a industrial strategy on
the on the part of of China it's really
about seeing the future and this is what
I give them credit for you know when I
in in my book I call it a beautiful
strategy because I think it is the most
incredible incredibly well thought
strategy that I've ever seen and it
probably will go down in history as one
of the greats and and it is smart for
them to figure this out but even if we
have it would we use it we probably
wouldn't use it if we even if we haven't
that's why I mean I think I would be
terrified to have you know to use it and
I think you know the good
that we have is that our telcos here or
so in burden with debt that they that
they're slow to deploy 5g anyway but if
we got it let's just say we have access
to it okay with the voters vote for it
to be deployed because if you need two
cameras per let's just say because you
need that technology as well it's not
like day one we have it hey we got it we
you know let's have the server we go use
5g turn it on it's a switch it's a lot
of development for us to be ready with
the camera with all that technology to
be created and they're saying there's
some threats to it as well with health
it may not be even health before you
tell but I mean our guys are over there
working with the Chinese right now
building it right they're designed
they're helping them design the
algorithms they're helping to design a
lot of the technology because they've
moved a lot of their design facilities
over there because there's so much data
and you can go to Baidu and say I just
need tons of data so that I can run you
know work on my algorithm so you know
it's not like they're not already
working with the Chinese
you know our companies are working with
them to build the stuff do you think a
form of trumps a negotiation with
tariffs is a way for him to expect them
to give access to 5g where I'm not
negotiating with you until you put that
to us and help us speed up the process
as well or you know so again let's just
go back to what 5g is it's it's
beamforming antennas with
software-defined radios and
software-defined networks we've been
working with that stuff in the US
military for years we have the
technology we don't have to go to China
China doesn't necessarily have all the
best technology it's just we have all
this technology we haven't
commercialized so we just need to turn
around and put it out ourselves then why
do you say we can't do it till 2025
because the companies that do it the
equipment manufacture we don't have
anymore we don't have any commercial
equipment manufactured we have companies
that work with the with the Defense
Department we don't have any to build
for commercial telecoms now you know
Ericsson and Nokia Samsung they still
build equipment but again as I said
they're so in part nerds with with China
except for Samsung which pulled out four
device manufacturing three or four years
ago but not equipment manufacturing you
know that that where they're all so
corrupt or not corrupt but you know
essentially having Chinese technology
built into their systems I got a couple
more questions here and we should be
done next thing is with Nixon you know a
lot of times you really I like the fact
that you mentioned Nixon in the book
with
Kissinger you know a lot of times people
give credit to Nixon for what he did
with China even Democrats Republicans
independents yeah Nixon opened it up
right and then there's a part you talk
about at the time I think it was Mao who
is the leader of China at the time and
he's sitting with Kissinger and there's
the interpreter that says hey you know
they're having a conversation and he
says to him a certain phrase Emma the
Baba and the interpreter what was that
all about well I think again it goes to
the to the the premise of the book there
is there is obfuscation built in
everything they do and and even when you
do negotiations with them by the way say
you come you're you're looking at an
English document and then there's a
translated Chinese translation right
next door right next to it that you're
looking at both documents
oftentimes what they'll do is we'll
negotiate a document in English and then
they'll change the word in Chinese right
so so in a lot of ways China uses that
language that language barrier as the
it's almost like the first layer of
encryption and so since you know many
Americans have really no clue about the
Chinese language it's very difficult for
them to have access to and so it may it
actually it's good for the Chinese
because it allows them to obfuscate
things and then then what they'll do is
they'll make transit they'll make
translations in negotiations where
they're all they use one word and and
sometimes our translators will catch it
sometimes they won't really sometimes
our translators don't catch don't catch
it so in that statements what America is
the leader what he really meant to say
is America is the tyrant right his
wedding because he looked at America as
the Hitler his similar to Hitler's
regime I think we look at it
so and then they'll say well we didn't
want to offend well perhaps or you know
perhaps something else was and was
intended there is the interpreter trying
to save the person making a statement is
it like because that just means that the
interpreters making the decision you
know what I'm sorry seen these before
where
the interpreter is trying to make a
judgment call on how to interpret I mean
I'm not one well that's not a clear
interpretation yeah Mike Wallace goes to
Iran sits with Khomeini and tells them
hey you know a certain question that
Purdue interpreter says I can't ask him
that question this is I think it's a
fair question ask him and then when he
asked the question got up and walked
that so I've seen that before as well so
what are we gonna see moving forward
because with China you know you talk
about the fact that China came in and
said hey we're gonna help help you out
Africa we're gonna put 60 to 80 billion
dollars into Africa and you know they're
deep into u.s. educational system now
out of our I think 1 million 20,000
students 32 and a half percent of the
students something like the 32 and a
half percent of our students in u.s. the
international students that are here are
from China right right so they're coming
in they're going into NYU they're going
to all these schools they're essentially
bringing a bunch of business to these
universities so are they going so deep
in these different organizations where
people are forced to support them due to
the money and the power they're bringing
in and then all of a sudden they're
gonna be the same Empire they were for
five thousand years are you kind of
seeing that yeah that's exactly that's
exactly what's happening and it really
is it's a smart strategy because we
spend brilliant 800 billion dollars on
defense yeah and you know Greece
basically makes a deal with the port of
Piraeus and so we say well you know
things aren't working we're gonna build
a couple more carrier battle groups in
Greece says I don't really care what I
want is jobs for my people what I want
is money and and that's what China comes
in and says okay we'll give you money
very cool that's I mean not very cool
it's good to know that part because I
just don't think these guys gonna slow
down I think they're you ever met people
where they say oh you know I'm really
not that competitive you know I'm just
just you know I'm just I just fear the
most they want to do good for and I'm
just a very you know I go to church on
Sundays and I'm just you know I love my
family and we're just trying to be good
citizens and then deep down inside
they're like wanting to whoop your ass
you know like that that's cool did you
study for the test no not really I mean
I don't know how it's gonna be I'm a
little bit worried but we'll see and
then again 90 years wait a minute you
were studying freaking for two weeks for
this test right I'm the one that was
party and you were the one that was
studying for the test
anyways last into your speedrun I'll
give you a name you give me the first
thing that comes to your mind
and then we'll go from there Mitch
McConnell I think he's an establishment
establishment okay Dalai Lama dissident
leader Trump not the establishment got
it Ren Xing Phi PLA PLA okay again
excuse my pronunciation G Jim pink
Communist Party okay Joe Biden
establishment John Bolton establishment
really okay hunter Biden and the child
of the establishment okay Jack Ma Pa
Boris Johnson hmm
I think the the iiiii I don't know if
he's establishment or not I think the
jury verdicts yeah okay Joe jury stood
out the Roger Robinson Jr he's it for
even a freedom fighter freedom fighter
okay and then the American Constitution
absolutely necessary absolutely
necessary absolutely necessary you know
it's funny you say that American
Constitution is absolutely necessary
one of the things that I was debating
another very very established a
multi-billionaire we were talking about
China and one of the things that came up
I said believe it or not I believe one
of the strengths China has is they don't
have freedom of speech and what does
that mean they don't have freedom of
press I went online and I looked at
China's unemployment 3.4% 2.8 percent 3
percent 3.1 percent for the last 20
years how do I know that and then you
look at real numbers like 15 20 percent
how do I know these numbers right and us
you know some may hate CNN some may hit
Fox some made him an MSNBC some a hey
Drudge some may hate these guys
but at least they're going back and
forth allowing us to kind of watch them
go back and forth and say let me go do
my own research kind of figure out so as
much as Free Press is annoying
here it's amazing annoying to the
opposite group I'm sure folks at MSNBC
can't stand folks at Fox vice versa it's
amazing how much that allows us to kind
of decipher from all the you know you
know part propaganda that's being sold
and I kind of go out there and say okay
this is what I see so I agree with you
on the American Constitution extremely
necessary that's why I'm here from Iran
and we escape there to come here final
thoughts here before we leave your
thoughts I am an investor I'm an
entrepreneur I'm an executive I'm seeing
what's going on with China I'm watching
this I'm a little bit more educated I'm
about to order your book I have an order
that I'm going to click on a link order
and read the whole thing because
obviously you can't get the 230 pages in
a two-hour sit down what should I be
thinking about and adapting or making
certain audibles right now for my
courier to prepare myself for the next
12-24 60 months in the future I would
pick up the Constitution
I would pick up the Atlantic Charter I
read those two things and I'd think
about it because my campaign is about
making sure that those things last and
if they last and you continue to do
business in the way that you're doing
you're gonna go broke if you continue to
do business the way that you're going
you're gonna go broke because you can
ignore me you can get on my side or you
can fight me but my goal is to preserve
the Constitution the way we do it is to
preserve the way the rules of the road
that we created and I'm about read
establishing those rules and if you're
doing business and you're in you're
making money from the Chinese Communist
Party and you you think that that's the
way that you're going to continue to
make money going forward if you think
that this government is going to support
that and I think you're a hundred
percent wrong and I'm gonna do
everything in my power to make sure that
doesn't happen
fair enough if you ever thought about
being a motivational speaker maybe it's
not a good career for your mother
because that was a very direct statement
and I love it it's my style of
communication I wanted to tell you I had
the Mario ink I get a gift for you guys
we are gonna send you to China for one
week for vacation to go have a great
time
on us
it's on the house it may turn into seven
years but we're gonna start off with a
week and it will sit as long as as long
as it's like a four-star hotel please
please don't send me one of those two
star hotels those are really bad anyways
having said that general thank you so
much for coming out
also I know you came with your family or
thank you for making the time to come
out it was a pleasure sitting down and
talking with you value Tanner's there
are books I read when I have guests that
come out and I read it to get as much
information as I can if you could see
the amount of marx's in this book I
couldn't put this book down it's a must
read for anybody that's planning on
competing in a marketplace we're gonna
put the link below go to the book and
any of the topics that he talked about
little links anything that he will may
have mentioned if we find their links
we'll put the link below as well but
make sure you go to this book having
said that general thank you for coming
out preciate you thank you yes this was
great you know I actually want to hear
your thoughts to see where your opinion
was about us and China or 5g pre
watching this interview and post
watching Robert Spaulding with his
latest book that came out stealth war so
tweet me at Patrick with them and kind
of let me know how you process today sit
down because this was very different for
me as well to see it from a guy that's
on the inside national security
presenting 5g who's lived in China very
different kind of an interview so that's
that and by the way if you watch this
interview you may like the interview I
do with Ray Dalio as well because it's
somewhat about this topic as well as a
video I did on 5g and Huawei that's
obviously about this topic as well and
if you haven't subscribed to the channel
please click on the button over here to
subscribe thanks for watching everybody
take care bye bye
you
[Music]